packages/api/README.md, before:

# <img height="48" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wasmerio/wasmer/master/assets/logo.png" alt="Wasmer logo" valign="middle"> Wasmer Python [![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wasmer)](https://badge.fury.io/py/wasmer) [![Wasmer Python Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-read-green)](https://wasmerio.github.io/wasmer-python/api/wasmer.html) [![Wasmer PyPI downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/wasmer)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer/) [![Wasmer Slack #python Channel](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=chat&message=on%20Slack%20%23python&color=green)](https://slack.wasmer.io)

A complete and mature WebAssembly runtime for Python based on
[Wasmer](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer).

### Features

* Secure by default. No file, network, or environment access, unless explicitly enabled.
* Fast. Run WebAssembly at near-native speeds.
* Compliant with latest WebAssembly Proposals (SIMD, Reference Types, Threads, ...)

**Documentation**: [browse the detailed API
documentation](https://wasmerio.github.io/wasmer-python/api/wasmer/wasmer.html) full of
examples.

**Examples and tutorials**: [browse the `examples/`
directory](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-python/tree/master/examples),
it's the best place for a complete introduction!

## Install

To install the `wasmer` Python package, and let's say the
`wasmer_compiler_cranelift` compiler, just run those commands in your shell:

```sh
$ pip install wasmer wasmer_compiler_cranelift
```

## Usage

```python
from wasmer import engine, Store, Module, Instance

store = Store()

# Let's compile the module to be able to execute it!
module = Module(store, """
(module
  (type (func (param i32 i32) (result i32)))
  (func (export "sum") (type 0) (param i32) (param i32) (result i32)
    local.get 0
    local.get 1
    i32.add))
""")

# Now the module is compiled, we can instantiate it.
instance = Instance(module)

# Call the exported `sum` function.
result = instance.exports.sum(5, 37)

print(result) # 42!
```

And then, finally, enjoy by running:

```sh
$ python examples/appendices/simple.py
```

We highly recommend to read the
[`examples/`](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-python/tree/master/examples)
directory, which contains a sequence of examples/tutorials. It's the
best place to learn by reading examples.


## Quick Introduction

The `wasmer` package brings the required API to execute WebAssembly
modules. In a nutshell, `wasmer` compiles the WebAssembly module into
compiled code, and then executes it. `wasmer` is designed to work in
various environments and platforms: From nano single-board computers
to large and powerful servers, including more exotic ones. To address
those requirements, Wasmer provides 2 engines and 3 compilers.

Succinctly, an _engine_ is responsible to drive the _compilation_ and
the _execution_ of a WebAssembly module. By extension, a _headless_
engine can only execute a WebAssembly module, i.e. a module that has
previously been compiled, or compiled, serialized and deserialized. By
default, the `wasmer` package comes with 2 headless engines:

1. `wasmer.engine.Universal`, the compiled machine code lives in memory,
2. `wasmer.engine.Native`, the compiled machine code lives in a shared
   object file (`.so`, `.dylib`, or `.dll`), and is natively executed.

Because `wasmer` does not embed compilers in its package, engines are
headless, i.e. they can't compile WebAssembly module; they can only
execute them. Compilers live in their own standalone packages. Let's
briefly introduce them:

| Compiler package | Description | PyPi |
|-|-|-|
| `wasmer_compiler_singlepass` | Super fast compilation times, slower execution times. Not prone to JIT-bombs. *Ideal for blockchains* | [![On PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wasmer_compiler_singlepass)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_singlepass/) [![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/wasmer_compiler_singlepass)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_singlepass/) |
| `wasmer_compiler_cranelift` | Fast compilation times, fast execution times. *Ideal for development* | [![On PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wasmer_compiler_cranelift)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_cranelift/) [![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/wasmer_compiler_cranelift)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_cranelift/) |
| `wasmer_compiler_llvm` | Slow compilation times, very fast execution times (close to native, sometimes faster). *Ideal for Production* | [![On PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wasmer_compiler_llvm)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_llvm/) [![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/wasmer_compiler_llvm)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_llvm/) |

We generally recommend `wasmer_compiler_cranelift` for development
purposes and `wasmer_compiler_llvm` in production.

Learn more by reading [the documentation of the `wasmer.engine`
submodule](https://wasmerio.github.io/wasmer-python/api/wasmer/wasmer.html#engine).


## Supported platforms

We try to provide wheels for as many platforms and architectures as
possible. For the moment, here are the supported platforms and
architectures:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Platform</th>
      <th>Architecture</th>
      <th>Triple</th>
      <th colspan="2">Packages</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="8">Linux</td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>amd64</code></td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu</code></td>
      <td><code>wasmer</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_cranelift</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>aarch64</code></td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu</code></td>
      <td><code>wasmer</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code></td>
      <td>❌ <sup><a href="#wheels-note-1">1</a></sup></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_cranelift</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4">Darwin</td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>amd64</code></td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>x86_64-apple-darwin</code></td>
      <td><code>wasmer</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_cranelift</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4">Windows</td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>amd64</code></td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>x86_64-pc-windows-msvc</code></td>
      <td><code>wasmer</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_cranelift</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code></td>
      <td>❌ <sup><a href="#wheels-note-2">2</a></sup></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Notes:

<ul>
  <li id="wheels-note-1"><sup>1</sup>
  <code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code> does not support
  <code>aarch64</code> for the moment</li>
  <li id="wheels-note-2"><sup>2</sup>
  <code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code> is not packaging properly on
  Windows for the moment</li>
</ul>

Wheels are all built for the following Python versions:

* Python 3.7,
* Python 3.8.
* Python 3.9.
* Python 3.10,

<details>
<summary>Learn about the “fallback” <code>py3-none-any</code> wheel</summary>

### `py3-none-any.whl`

A special `wasmer-$(version)-py3-none-any` wheel is built as a
fallback. The `wasmer` library will be installable, but it will raise
an `ImportError` exception saying that “Wasmer is not available on
this system”.

This wheel will be installed if none matches before (learn more by
reading the [PEP 425, Compatibility Tags for Built
Distributions](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0425/)).

</details>

# Development

The Python extension is written in [Rust], with [`pyo3`] and
[`maturin`].

First, you need to install Rust and Python. We will not make you the
affront to explain to you how to install Python (if you really need,
check [`pyenv`](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/)). For Rust though, we
advise to use [`rustup`](https://rustup.rs/), then:

```sh
$ rustup install stable
```

To set up your environment, you'll need [`just`], and then, install
the prelude of this project:

```sh
$ cargo install just
$ just --list # to learn about all the available recipes
$ just prelude
```

It will install `pyo3` and `maturin` for Python and for Rust. It will
also install [`virtualenv`].

Then, simply run:

```sh
$ source .env/bin/activate
$ just build api
$ just build compiler-cranelift
$ python examples/appendices/simple.py
```

## Testing

Build all the packages and run the tests:

```sh
$ just build-all
$ just test
```

# What is WebAssembly?

Quoting [the WebAssembly site](https://webassembly.org/):

> WebAssembly (abbreviated Wasm) is a binary instruction format for a
> stack-based virtual machine. Wasm is designed as a portable target
> for compilation of high-level languages like C/C++/Rust, enabling
> deployment on the web for client and server applications.

About speed:

> WebAssembly aims to execute at native speed by taking advantage of
> [common hardware
> capabilities](https://webassembly.org/docs/portability/#assumptions-for-efficient-execution)
> available on a wide range of platforms.

About safety:

> WebAssembly describes a memory-safe, sandboxed [execution
> environment](https://webassembly.org/docs/semantics/#linear-memory) […].

# License

The entire project is under the MIT License. Please read [the
`LICENSE` file][license].


[`pyo3`]: https://github.com/PyO3/pyo3
[`maturin`]: https://github.com/PyO3/maturin
[`virtualenv`]: https://virtualenv.pypa.io/
[`just`]: https://github.com/casey/just/
[license]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/LICENSE
[Rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org/
[compilers]: https://medium.com/wasmer/a-webassembly-compiler-tale-9ef37aa3b537

Commit message:

Small tweak and documentation to build wasmer-python

packages/api/README.md, after:

# <img height="48" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wasmerio/wasmer/master/assets/logo.png" alt="Wasmer logo" valign="middle"> Wasmer Python [![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wasmer)](https://badge.fury.io/py/wasmer) [![Wasmer Python Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-read-green)](https://wasmerio.github.io/wasmer-python/api/wasmer.html) [![Wasmer PyPI downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/wasmer)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer/) [![Wasmer Slack #python Channel](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=chat&message=on%20Slack%20%23python&color=green)](https://slack.wasmer.io)

A complete and mature WebAssembly runtime for Python based on
[Wasmer](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer).

### Features

* Secure by default. No file, network, or environment access, unless explicitly enabled.
* Fast. Run WebAssembly at near-native speeds.
* Compliant with latest WebAssembly Proposals (SIMD, Reference Types, Threads, ...)

**Documentation**: [browse the detailed API
documentation](https://wasmerio.github.io/wasmer-python/api/wasmer/wasmer.html) full of
examples.

**Examples and tutorials**: [browse the `examples/`
directory](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-python/tree/master/examples),
it's the best place for a complete introduction!

## Install

To install the `wasmer` Python package, and let's say the
`wasmer_compiler_cranelift` compiler, just run those commands in your shell:

```sh
$ pip install wasmer wasmer_compiler_cranelift
```

## Usage

```python
from wasmer import engine, Store, Module, Instance

store = Store()

# Let's compile the module to be able to execute it!
module = Module(store, """
(module
  (type (func (param i32 i32) (result i32)))
  (func (export "sum") (type 0) (param i32) (param i32) (result i32)
    local.get 0
    local.get 1
    i32.add))
""")

# Now the module is compiled, we can instantiate it.
instance = Instance(module)

# Call the exported `sum` function.
result = instance.exports.sum(5, 37)

print(result) # 42!
```

And then, finally, enjoy by running:

```sh
$ python examples/appendices/simple.py
```

We highly recommend to read the
[`examples/`](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-python/tree/master/examples)
directory, which contains a sequence of examples/tutorials. It's the
best place to learn by reading examples.


## Quick Introduction

The `wasmer` package brings the required API to execute WebAssembly
modules. In a nutshell, `wasmer` compiles the WebAssembly module into
compiled code, and then executes it. `wasmer` is designed to work in
various environments and platforms: From nano single-board computers
to large and powerful servers, including more exotic ones. To address
those requirements, Wasmer provides 2 engines and 3 compilers.

Succinctly, an _engine_ is responsible to drive the _compilation_ and
the _execution_ of a WebAssembly module. By extension, a _headless_
engine can only execute a WebAssembly module, i.e. a module that has
previously been compiled, or compiled, serialized and deserialized. By
default, the `wasmer` package comes with 2 headless engines:

1. `wasmer.engine.Universal`, the compiled machine code lives in memory,
2. `wasmer.engine.Native`, the compiled machine code lives in a shared
   object file (`.so`, `.dylib`, or `.dll`), and is natively executed.

Because `wasmer` does not embed compilers in its package, engines are
headless, i.e. they can't compile WebAssembly module; they can only
execute them. Compilers live in their own standalone packages. Let's
briefly introduce them:

| Compiler package | Description | PyPi |
|-|-|-|
| `wasmer_compiler_singlepass` | Super fast compilation times, slower execution times. Not prone to JIT-bombs. *Ideal for blockchains* | [![On PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wasmer_compiler_singlepass)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_singlepass/) [![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/wasmer_compiler_singlepass)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_singlepass/) |
| `wasmer_compiler_cranelift` | Fast compilation times, fast execution times. *Ideal for development* | [![On PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wasmer_compiler_cranelift)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_cranelift/) [![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/wasmer_compiler_cranelift)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_cranelift/) |
| `wasmer_compiler_llvm` | Slow compilation times, very fast execution times (close to native, sometimes faster). *Ideal for Production* | [![On PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wasmer_compiler_llvm)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_llvm/) [![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/wasmer_compiler_llvm)](https://pypi.org/project/wasmer_compiler_llvm/) |

We generally recommend `wasmer_compiler_cranelift` for development
purposes and `wasmer_compiler_llvm` in production.

Learn more by reading [the documentation of the `wasmer.engine`
submodule](https://wasmerio.github.io/wasmer-python/api/wasmer/wasmer.html#engine).


## Supported platforms

We try to provide wheels for as many platforms and architectures as
possible. For the moment, here are the supported platforms and
architectures:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Platform</th>
      <th>Architecture</th>
      <th>Triple</th>
      <th colspan="2">Packages</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="8">Linux</td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>amd64</code></td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu</code></td>
      <td><code>wasmer</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_cranelift</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>aarch64</code></td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu</code></td>
      <td><code>wasmer</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code></td>
      <td>❌ <sup><a href="#wheels-note-1">1</a></sup></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_cranelift</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4">Darwin</td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>amd64</code></td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>x86_64-apple-darwin</code></td>
      <td><code>wasmer</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_cranelift</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4">Windows</td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>amd64</code></td>
      <td rowspan="4"><code>x86_64-pc-windows-msvc</code></td>
      <td><code>wasmer</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_cranelift</code></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code></td>
      <td>❌ <sup><a href="#wheels-note-2">2</a></sup></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Notes:

<ul>
  <li id="wheels-note-1"><sup>1</sup>
  <code>wasmer_compiler_singlepass</code> does not support
  <code>aarch64</code> for the moment</li>
  <li id="wheels-note-2"><sup>2</sup>
  <code>wasmer_compiler_llvm</code> is not packaging properly on
  Windows for the moment</li>
</ul>

Wheels are all built for the following Python versions:

* Python 3.7,
* Python 3.8.
* Python 3.9.
* Python 3.10,

<details>
<summary>Learn about the “fallback” <code>py3-none-any</code> wheel</summary>

### `py3-none-any.whl`

A special `wasmer-$(version)-py3-none-any` wheel is built as a
fallback. The `wasmer` library will be installable, but it will raise
an `ImportError` exception saying that “Wasmer is not available on
this system”.

This wheel will be installed if none matches before (learn more by
reading the [PEP 425, Compatibility Tags for Built
Distributions](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0425/)).

</details>

# Development

The Python extension is written in [Rust], with [`pyo3`] and
[`maturin`].

First, you need to install Rust and Python. We will not make you the
affront to explain to you how to install Python (if you really need,
check [`pyenv`](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/)). For Rust though, we
advise to use [`rustup`](https://rustup.rs/), then:

```sh
$ rustup install stable
```

To set up your environment, you'll need [`just`], and then, install
the prelude of this project:

```sh
$ cargo install just
$ just --list # to learn about all the available recipes
$ just prelude
```

It will install `pyo3` and `maturin` for Python and for Rust. It will
also install [`virtualenv`].

Then, simply run:

```sh
$ source .env/bin/activate
$ just build api
$ just build compiler-cranelift
$ python examples/appendices/simple.py
```

## Testing

To build all tests you'll need LLVM 12.0 in your system. We recommend either installing prepackaged
libraries with [llvm.sh](https://apt.llvm.org/llvm.sh) or building it yourself with [llvmenv](https://crates.io/crates/llvmenv).

Build all the packages and run the tests:

```sh
$ just build-all
$ just test
```

# What is WebAssembly?

Quoting [the WebAssembly site](https://webassembly.org/):

> WebAssembly (abbreviated Wasm) is a binary instruction format for a
> stack-based virtual machine. Wasm is designed as a portable target
> for compilation of high-level languages like C/C++/Rust, enabling
> deployment on the web for client and server applications.

About speed:

> WebAssembly aims to execute at native speed by taking advantage of
> [common hardware
> capabilities](https://webassembly.org/docs/portability/#assumptions-for-efficient-execution)
> available on a wide range of platforms.

About safety:

> WebAssembly describes a memory-safe, sandboxed [execution
> environment](https://webassembly.org/docs/semantics/#linear-memory) […].

# License

The entire project is under the MIT License. Please read [the
`LICENSE` file][license].


[`pyo3`]: https://github.com/PyO3/pyo3
[`maturin`]: https://github.com/PyO3/maturin
[`virtualenv`]: https://virtualenv.pypa.io/
[`just`]: https://github.com/casey/just/
[license]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/LICENSE
[Rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org/
[compilers]: https://medium.com/wasmer/a-webassembly-compiler-tale-9ef37aa3b537
